well howdy there internet people its
beau again some tonight we're going to
talk about the notion that Ukraine
interfere in our election in 2016 in
order to really understand it we have to
take kind of a roundabout way to get
there so stick with me in the summer of
1899 stick with me
a guy from Chicago an engineer named
Frank C Lewis he got interviewed at the
Oxford Hotel in Denver journalist were
interested in him because he was on his
way to China with a very unusual job
Chinese government had asked him to tear
down the Great Wall of China and use the
stones to build a road cool story The
Denver Post times and Republican ran
that story on June 25th 1899 couple days
later fort wayne sentinel found out that
some of the stones were going to be used
to plug up the yangzi river and shortly
thereafter other outlets were able to
get their hands on illustrations of all
of this now we know this never happened
because the Great Wall of China is there
but why well that was filled in for us
by a guy named Harry Lee Wilbur in 1939
he told everybody that basically this
the idea that foreigners were going to
tear down the wall it inflamed
anti-foreign sentiment in China and
that's why they had the Boxer Rebellion
this story got repeated until at least
1981 when none other than Paul Harvey
good-day repeated it here's the problem
Frank C Lewis
never existed not a real person never
existed journalists in Denver were up
against the deadline so they just made
up a story something far away
nobody could verify check it out
they had no idea other outlets we're
gonna run with it and add to it how
could they it's not real
my guess is guy in Fort Wayne Sentinel
guy that paper well he's like hey I got
three sources it's got to be true just
embellish it a little add my own twist
to it boom easy story get my paycheck
good to go so they don't plug up the
yangzi with some of the rocks who cares
I mean they just ran out of rocks be
easy to explain and because the story
spread people started manufacturing
evidence the thing about it sparking the
Boxer Rebellion none of that's true
none of that is true just made up
there's actually no evidence that this
story ever even made it to China by this
this is what happened with this idea of
Ukraine interfering in our elections
somebody made up a story see this
wealthy Ukrainian Ukrainian company
called CrowdStrike
they got the server they know it was
Ukrainian interference not Russia okay
that's cool except for the fact that the
guy in the owns CrowdStrike is an
American in California and even if you
went by his heritage he's Russian not
Ukrainian so even if president Trump's
little conspiracy theory was true it
would still be Russian interference
they're desperate to get the idea that
it wasn't Russian interference out there
that makes him look bad but let's just
do a quick scan of the the facts so to
be clear this conspiracy theory revolves
around the idea that Ukraine are a lie
who was trying to submit ties with us
dependent on us for aid they interfered
in our election to make sure the guy who
is running as America first not gonna
help anybody not going to get involved
in any of these other countries to make
sure he won because that's in their
interests it doesn't even make sense but
it got repeated just like this story so
people believed it 100 years from now
people are gonna look at the
congressional testimony and make fun of
these Congress people that asked about
this how could they be this dumb it was
repeated enough was repeated enough by
people who they trusted repetition is
how people like this these right-wing
news outlets how they get their story
across and it works just like this
somebody makes something up and then
somebody else builds off of it without
verifying it it's how it happens you
know ideas travel faster than bullets
that that saying is not reserved for
true ideas anyway it's just a thought
you'll have a good night